In _Lying_ Sam Harris explains ...

A lie is...
lying is a form of deception, but not all deceptions are lies
a lie is misleading other when they expect honest communication
you can deceive even when telling the truth
the purpose of a lie is to make others form false believes
the consequence of a lie grows proportional to the dependency of a correct world understanding on the well being of others. [write this better]
truthfulness and truth are different things. Depends on the accuracy of one believes.
there are many reasons to lie, all have in common that they intent to communicate to others a different thing that one holds true [write this better]
we must consider our lie from the point of view of others.
If we lie when it suits our needs we loose other's trust in ourselves.
Everybody lies and that makes for a worst life for everybody.

Honesty
truth is better than lying because we like honest interactions with other people. We dislike the suspicion that comes with deceiving.
lying makes for poorer relationships.
Honest people are unusual and sought after.
Honesty is the commitment to telling the truth.
Honesty makes our lives simpler. not having to prepare and maintain lies
honesty shows us how we really are.(the things that we can say about ourselves that are not lies)
honesty shows us which of our relationships are worth it.(the ones that doesn't need lies to be maintained(the relationship)
.. surfaces our real problems (the stuff about ourselves that we hide from others)
.. surfaces the things we want to improve on. (the stuff about ourselves that we hide from others)

Types of lies
Lies can be for acts of commission or from acts of omission. Commission requires energy to do, Omission requires energy to be fixed.
Commission lies are gauged by how much energy was used to commit them.
Omission lies are forgiven by how much energy is required to correct them.

White lies are not good
appearing rude is better than being dishonest.
can't always respond how we want or how the other person expects, but it is always better when the basic communication is truthful.
being rude could be seen as social ineptitude or immaturity. But we need to stop lying for our society to mature.
White lies carry all the problems of other lies, destroys sincerity, integrity, mutual understanding and our authenticity.
and also we avoid our close ones access to our reality. Making them act on falsehoods roving them the opportunity to see problems and solve them.
white lies is taking away the freedom of others.
If you cannot tell the truth to avoid pain, there must be background truths that you do can tell.
white lies told in benefit of others means we have judged how much should others understand about reality. It's arrogant and selfish.
it's also disrespectful in not having confidence in others.
white lies robs you the opportunity to understand, forgive, love and have compassion for others.

Trust
We always loose other's trust in us when they see us lie, this is not recoverable.
We also give bad example and teach others that is ok to lie.
We leave bad impressions of us in other peoples minds.

Faint Praise
really is the same than treating others as children. Rejecting the possibility of helping them.
It's much more kindness to tell the truth and save them of disappointment and embarrassment with others.

Secrets
Are not a lie when you need to keep your own information private. But secrets can be a problem when someone else imposes you to keep a secret, because that puts us in a position were we need to choose between lying or disclosing others' people private information.